# Ellie Lockhart, Software & Data Developer
## Personal Website & Portfolio

Welcome to the personal website & portfolio of Ellie Lockhart, software & data developer. I am a software developer with over ten years of professional experience, & a lifetime of coding. I'm driven to solve problems & answer tough questions about data architecture and in data science, and to create programs that solve real problems that people and companies have. My favorite challenges to work on require blending multiple approaches to software development & data architecture, and provide answers about both computer & human behavior! My coding languages of choice are Python, Java, and C#, but I'm familiar with most industry standard languages, and I enjoy working with a variety of database solutions, including traditional SQL, NoSQL, & even graph databases (like Neo4j and Amazon Neptune). I develop across multiple clouds, and use a variety of virtual and physical software architectures. 

I've been a programmer since I was ten years old and finally convinced my parents to purchase me an old Mac SE with a BASIC interpreter. While sadly none of my work from that time survives, the challenges of working with a computer which was a year older than I was helped me learn the basics of data interchange formats, operating system architectures, and troubleshooting. Around the same time, I became involved in hobbyist game development, and was part of the web team for a (sadly now vaporware) adventure game engine known as RoBoT, whose backend was Python. (As a result, I've technically been working with Python since 1998!) When I was thirteen, my best friend and I entered the Southwest Technical College of Wisconsin's robotics competition, & took second place with our home-built, home-programmed robot - my first embedded system. I moved on to learn C++ in programming courses, and began working with Python again in collaboration with another friend in college.

I dedicated my academic career to researching data, & from beginning undergraduate studies in 2006 through the successful completion of my PhD dissertation in 2015 at Texas A&M University, I learned to work with SQL & R, began working in cloud environments as the administrator of a public hobbyist forum, and sampled Twitter data for my doctoral research. As a graduate student, I was employed full time as a teacher/researcher in addition to my studies, and participated in the organization and digitization of records for senior faculty. When I moved on to work as an assistant professor at New Jersey's Rowan University, I continued my full-time focus on data research. Since 2018, I have been an independent/freelance programmer & researcher aiming to solve problems in, among other things, social recommendation systems, natural language processing, & the analysis of internet data. I'm also an enthusiastic gamer who often blends my interest in computer & video games with my deep knowledge of data to answer questions related to online discourse & fandom - a theme that began with my doctoral work. In my spare time, I still enjoy working with robotics & embedded systems - nearly 20 years after that second-place trophy at the Wisconsin robot contest!

### Professional Interests
